well to discuss the Israeli military
report on its soldiers killing those
three Captain I'm joined Now by military
analyst Elijah maner good to have you
with us sir uh joining us from Brussels
can we just talk about Israel's Rules of
Engagement and what they are because now
we're seeing civilians Palestinian
civilians being shot killed and targeted
and now we're seeing Israeli captives
also being shot and killed without any
sort of questioning of who they are it
seems
well I think the is really version of
the army was not ready to see its uh
soldiers that were in captivity walking
around is quite silly it depends on the
objectives and the professionalism and
the respects of international laws that
are taught to the Army in engaging in a
battlefield so if the objectives were to
liberate not to execute the host ages as
it happened the Army would not flood the
tunnels and would not go and kill anyone
who is moving even civilians or their
own soldiers carrying White Flag or they
will not reject the ceasefire which take
us to the professionalism of the Army
and the instructions giving to the Army
from the professional point of view it
is obvious that the psychological effect
of the Warfare being exposed to such an
intense combat situation is dearly
affecting the psychology of the soldiers
increasing their anxiety paranoia we've
seen how the special forces the Golan
Brigade went in the shua and in the last
48 hours they've lost 20 men including
the head of the unit and several
officers so we understand from that that
the soldiers are on edge they no longer
confident they are afraid of the
effectiveness of the Palestinian
resistance Mr Man can I just can I just
jump in there we certainly get a sense
of what you're saying just a few days
ago we saw uh IDF footage of them
parading half- naked Palestinian men
with their hands on their head um uh
searching them for weapons a and paraded
as
captives there the Israelis felt they
were safe that had half naked men some
in their underwear and no threat yet
these men were also half naked walking
across uh a battlefield with white flags
and yet they were treated very
differently you you talk about
professionalism there's incompetence
here as well is there
not it's a very high level of
incompetence and also depend on the
circumstances those the Israelis have
shown us half naked they went into the
school and arrest them and ask them to
strip off so they knew who they were
dealing with in this case the three
soldiers they are professionals they
understand that they have to take off
their shirts to make sure that the Army
understand they not coming with bombs
and suicide bombers they're not going to
attack them and they're raising White
Flag the situation is completely
different the first one is at ease the
soldiers went in and they understood
their old civilians and the second case
they were confronted with a real
Battlefield and they showed how their
lack of training how their lack of
confidence but above all what you
rightly mentioned at the third beginning
the rule of Engagement so what is the
rule of Engagement that are giving to
the Army in the battlefield kill anyone
who and indeed does does this sort of
behavior breach the Geneva Convention or
does Israel work on a different premise
one being the Hannibal
Doctrine the Hannibal Doctrine would
apply when the Israeli know that there
is a a certain route or a location where
there are the hostages and uh the
kidnappers in this case it doesn't apply
because they are confronted with a
situation where they if had they respect
international law and the Geneva
Convention
they would have acted in a very cold
approach asking the three soldiers to be
on the floor and come and inspect them
or even from a distance to understand
who they were dealing with but because
they are killing
indiscriminately any person in Gaza and
that is the objective of the operation
is not to liberate the prisoners as bam
nany said but to destroy Gaza and its
inhabitant because had the objective
were rightly as nanyo said at The First
beginning we want to [__] Hamas
capability and liberate our prisoners
that the Army would not have shot the
three men because they were in looking
for the prisoners and not looking how to
execute them El man joining us from
Brussels thank you so much for your
analysis so let's bring in Nadine Madi
professor of media and communication at
katar University he's also author of the
global media coverage of the Palestinian
Israeli conflict could have you with us
back on the program let's just talk
about the media coverage of this
particular incident because okay now
you've got the Israeli media really
focusing on their own being killed by
their own and there are media
organizations and countries across the
world who have you might say been a
little bit more sympathetic to the
Israeli uh position who can't ignore
this and we'll have to report that the
Israelis really didn't know what they
were doing and kill their own I mean
this is this is obviously has nothing to
do with professionalism it has to do
with revenge and the way um the Israeli
government and its media apparatus are
trying to Market or kind of disseminate
information about this this this this
act of
Revenge um all of the civilians we've
been seeing on on International Global
um um screens I think it does remind
about it does remind about the war in
Iraq the war in Afghanistan and the way
civilian people have been kind of
dehumanized when they were stripped off
their clothes there are lots of accounts
of families and women who said how they
were men were separated those people are
civilians there is no proof for the
Israeli government to show that those
people any of them has been carrying
weapons any arms or they are threat to
anyone but there is a level there is a
level of incompetence is in there here
in the sense that absolutely you do not
brief your soldiers correctly in even
recognizing potential Israeli captives
in a war zone as they as they describe
it who may become free and and that
option that alternative in briefings
just wasn't even considered no
absolutely I mean and this is not by the
way the first mistake or the first kind
of catastrophe by the by the Israeli
Army I mean there are many many of them
there are now accounts that on this 7th
of October there was also another
catastrophic event where Apaches they
actually hit Israeli uh settlers uh
where Hamas people and other and others
invaded the uh the place so I I think
this is this is not the first the first
instance I think there are lots of
instance but this is an accumulation of
the malf functionality not only between
the communication but also the lack of
professionalism in the Israeli Army
we've been kind of hearing accounts of
this is the most professional Army in
the the world the most well-trained army
in the world and we have proofs in front
of us they couldn't even capture one uh
person from the people who are wanted by
the by the Israeli government and so now
we go back to you might say the
negotiating table because we're now
seeing talks between uh Israel and
interlocutor Qatar to talk about either
release of captives or another ceas fire
how are you reading the situation right
now well I think it's complex and there
are there is a kind of conflict
information to be honest I mean we we
hear we hear a message from the US from
the Biden Administration also we hear a
slightly different message from the
Israeli government but for sure that the
Kat broker they they are doing their
best to kind of come to a certain uh
conclusion to the catastrophe that is
befalling on the Palestinian people the
Kat government has been kind of behind
the scenes doing a huge amount of
diplomacy kind of networking and works
between the US the Egyptians but also
the the Israelis in general
and we know and we see it I mean whether
in the media and whether on on on on
other platforms so I think the
unfortunately the picture now is still
vague but what we know exactly for sure
and what we see on in front of us
whether on social media and so forth is
is is is the continuation of the
bombardment the annihilation of
Palestinian people whether in Gaza or in
the uh West Bank and other Palestinian
cities or we be imp picking more of
what's going on certainly as the evening
progresses for the moment nin Madi thank
you for joining us thank you